.TH exfalso 1 "February 20th, 2006"
.SH NAME
exfalso \- audio tag editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBexfalso\fR [ \fIdirectory\fR ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Ex Falso displays and edits audio metadata tags. Supported formats include
MP3, Ogg Vorbis, FLAC, Musepack (MPC), WavPack, and MOD/XM/IT.
.PP
This manual page is only a short reference for Ex Falso.
Complete documentation is available at
http://code.google.com/p/quodlibet/wiki/Guide.
.SH OPTIONS
Ex Falso may be given a directory to open on the command line.
.SH TIED TAGS
Many places in Ex Falso allow you to use "tied tags". Tied tags are two tag
names joined together with a "~" like "title~version" or "album~part".
Tied tags result in "nice" displays even when one of the tags is missing;
for example, "title~version" will result in \fITitle\ \-\ Version\fR when
a version tag is present, but only \fITitle\fR when one isn't. You can
tie any number of tags together.
.SH RENAMING FILES
Ex Falso allows you to rename files based on their tags. In some
cases you may wish to alter the filename depending on whether some
tags are present or missing, in addition to their values. A common
pattern might be
.RS 4
<tracknumber>. <title~version>
.RE
You can use a '|' to only text when a tag is present:
.RS 4
<tracknumber|<tracknumber>. ><title~version>
.RE
You can also specify literal text to use if the tag is missing by adding
another '|':
.RS 4
<album|<album>|No Album> \- <title>
.RE
See http://code.google.com/p/quodlibet/wiki/Guide_Renaming.
.SH BUGS
See http://code.google.com/p/quodlibet/issues/list for a list of
all currently open bugs and feature requests.
.SH AUTHORS
Joe Wreschnig and Michael Urman are the primary authors of Ex Falso.
.SH SEE ALSO
http://code.google.com/p/quodlibet/wiki/Guide,
.br
http://code.google.com/p/quodlibet/wiki/FAQ
