.TH quodlibet 1 "November 26th, 2005"
.SH NAME
quodlibet \- audio library manager and player
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBquodlibet\fR [ \fB\-\-print\-playing\fR | \fIcontrol\fR ]
.br
\fBexfalso\fR [ \fIdirectory\fR ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Quod Libet is a music management program. It provides several different ways
to view your audio library, as well as support for Internet radio and
audio feeds. It has extremely flexible metadata tag editing and searching
capabilities.
.PP
This manual page is only a short reference for Quod Libet.
Complete documentation is available at
http://code.google.com/p/quodlibet/wiki/Guide.
.SH QUOD\ LIBET\ OPTIONS
.IP \-\-enqueue\ \fIfilename\fR|\fIquery\fR 4
Enqueue a filename or query results.
.IP \-\-filter\ \fItag\fR=\fIvalue\fR 4
Filter on a tag value
.IP \-\-focus 4
Focus the running player
.IP \-\-hide\-window 4
Hide main window
.IP \-\-next 4
Jump to next song
.IP \-\-open\-browser=\fIBrowserName\fR 4
Open a new browser
.IP \-\-order=\fBinorder\fR|\fBshuffle\fR|\fBweighted\fR|\fBonesong\fR|\fBtoggle\fR 4
Set or toggle the playback order
.IP \-\-pause 4
Pause playback
.IP \-\-play 4
Start playback
.IP \-\-play\-file=\fIfilename\fR 4
Play a file
.IP \-\-play\-pause 4
Toggle play/pause mode
.IP \-\-previous 4
Jump to previous song or restart if near the beginning
.IP \-\-force\-previous 4
Jump to previous song
.IP \-\-print-playlist 4
Print the current playlist
.IP \-\-print-queue 4
Print the contents of the queue
.IP \-\-print\-playing 4
Print out information about the currently playing song. You may provide
in a string like the kind described in the \fBRENAMING FILES\fR section
below.
.IP \-\-query=\fIsearch\-string\fR 4
Search your audio library
.IP \-\-quit 4
Exit Quod Libet
.IP \-\-random=\fItag\fR 4
Filter on a random value
.IP \-\-repeat=\fBoff\fR|\fBon\fR|\fBt\fR 4
Turn repeat off, on, or toggle
.IP \-\-seek=\fI[+|\-][HH:]MM:SS\fR 4
Seek within the playing song
.IP \-\-set\-browser=\fIBrowserName\fR 4
Set the current browser
.IP \-\-set\-rating=\fB0.0\fR..\fB1.0\fR 4
Rate the playing song
.IP \-\-show\-window 4
Hide main window
.IP \-\-start\-playing 4
Begin playing immediately
.IP \-\-status 4
Print playing status
.IP \-\-toggle\-window 4
Toggle main window visibility
.IP \-\-unfilter 4
Remove active browser filters
.IP \-\-unqueue=\fIfilename\fR|\fIquery\fR 4
Unqueue a file or query
.IP \-\-volume=(\fB+\fR|\fB\-\fR|)\fB0\fR..\fB100\fR 4
Set the volume
.SH ALBUM COVERS
Album covers should be put in the same directory as the songs they
apply to, and have "folder", "front", or "cover" in their filenames.
If you want to store multiple albums in the same directory but keep
distinct cover images, the name of the appropriate image file must
contain the \fBlabelid\fR tag value, e.g. \fICOCX\-32760 cover.jpg\fR.
.SH TIED TAGS
Many places in Quod Libet allow you to use "tied tags". Tied tags are two tag
names joined together with a "~" like "title~version" or "album~part".
Tied tags result in "nice" displays even when one of the tags is missing;
for example, "title~version" will result in \fITitle\ \-\ Version\fR when
a version tag is present, but only \fITitle\fR when one isn't. You can
tie any number of tags together.
.SH SEARCH SYNTAX
All of Quod Libet's search boxes support advanced searches of the
following forms:
.RS 4
tag = value
.br
tag = !value
.br
tag = "value"
.br
tag = /value/
.br
tag = &(value1, value2)
.br
tag = |(value1, value2)
.br
!tag = value
.br
|(tag1 = value1, tag2 = value2)
.br
&(tag1 = value1, tag2 = value2)
.br
#(numerictag < value)
.br
#(numerictag = value)
.br
#(numerictag > value)
.RE
The '\fBc\fR' postfix on strings or regular expressions makes the search
case-sensitive. Numeric values may be given as integers, floating-point
numbers, MM:SS format, or simple English, e.g. "3 days", "2 hours".
.PP
See http://code.google.com/p/quodlibet/wiki/Guide_Searching.
.PP
All internal tags begin with a ~ character. Non-numeric internal tags
are ~basename, ~dirname, ~filename, ~format, ~length, ~people, and ~rating.
Numeric internal tags are ~#added, ~#bitrate, ~#disc, ~#lastplayed,
~#laststarted, ~#length, ~#mtime, ~#playcount, ~#skipcount, and ~#track.
.PP
See http://code.google.com/p/quodlibet/wiki/Guide_InternalTags.
.SH RENAMING FILES
Quod Libet allows you to rename files based on their tags. In some
cases you may wish to alter the filename depending on whether some
tags are present or missing, in addition to their values. A common
pattern might be
.RS 4
<tracknumber>. <title~version>
.RE
You can use a '|' to only text when a tag is present:
.RS 4
<tracknumber|<tracknumber>. ><title~version>
.RE
You can also specify literal text to use if the tag is missing by adding
another '|':
.RS 4
<album|<album>|No Album> \- <title>
.RE
See http://code.google.com/p/quodlibet/wiki/Guide_Renaming.
.SH AUDIO BACKENDS
Quod Libet uses GStreamer for audio playback. It tries to read your GConf
GStreamer configuration, but if that fails it falls back to osssink. You
can change the \fBpipeline\fR option in \fI~/.quodlibet/config\fR to use
a different sink, or pass options to the sink. For example, you might use
\fBesdsink\fR or \fBalsasink device=hw:1\fR.
.PP
See http://code.google.com/p/quodlibet/wiki/Guide_AudioBackends.
.SH FILES
.IP \fI~/.quodlibet/songs\fR 4
A pickled Python dict of cached metadata. Deleting this file will remove
all songs from your library.
.IP \fI~/.quodlibet/config\fR 4
Quod Libet's configuration file. This file is overwritten when Quod Libet
exits.
.IP \fI~/.quodlibet/current\fR 4
A "key=value" file containing information about the currently playing song.
.IP \fI~/.quodlibet/control\fR 4
A FIFO connected to the most-recently-started instance of the program.
\-\-next, \-\-previous, etc., use this to control the player.
.IP \fI~/.quodlibet/plugins/\fR 4
Put plugins (from http://code.google.com/p/quodlibet/wiki/Guide_Plugins) here.
.IP \fI~/.quodlibet/browsers/\fR 4
Put custom library browsers here.
.PP
See http://code.google.com/p/quodlibet/wiki/Guide_Extending.
.SH BUGS
See http://code.google.com/p/quodlibet/issues/list for a list of
all currently open bugs and feature requests.
.SH AUTHORS
Joe Wreschnig and Michael Urman are the primary authors of Quod Libet.
.SH SEE ALSO
http://code.google.com/p/quodlibet/wiki/Guide,
.br
http://code.google.com/p/quodlibet/wiki/FAQ,
.br
.BR regex (7),
.BR gst-launch (1)
